Add concept pages for Scanner and Healing (#1192)
minio/docs: source/operations/concepts/scanner.rst

==============

.. default-domain:: minio

.. contents:: Table of Contents
   :local:
   :depth: 1

Overview
--------

MinIO uses the built-in scanner to check objects for healing and to take any scheduled object actions.
Such actions may include:

- calculate data usage on drives
- evaluate and apply configured :ref:`lifecycle management <minio-lifecycle-management>` or :ref:`object retention <minio-object-retention>` rules
- perform :ref:`bucket <minio-bucket-replication>` or :ref:`site <minio-site-replication-overview>` replication
- check objects for missing or corrupted data or parity shards and perform :ref:`healing <minio-concepts-healing>`

The scanner performs these functions at two levels: cluster and bucket.
At the cluster level, the scanner splits all buckets into groups and scans one group of buckets at a time.
The scanner starts with new buckets, then randomizes the scanning of other buckets.
The scanner completes checks on all bucket groups before starting over with a new set of scans.

At the bucket level, the scanner groups items in buckets and scans selected items from that bucket.
The scanner selects objects for a scan based on a hash of the object name.

> Over a span of 16 scans, MinIO checks every object in the namespace.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Over a span of 16 scans, MinIO checks every object in the namespace.
Any prefixes that are known to be new since the last scan will always be fully scanned.

```

Scan Length
-----------

Multiple factors impact the time it takes for a scan to complete.

Some of these factors include:
- Type of drives provided to MinIO
- Throughput and :abbr:`iops <input/output operations per second>` available
- Number and size of objects
- Other activity on the MinIO Server

For example, by default, MinIO pauses the scanner to make I/O operations available for read and write requests.
This can lengthen the time it takes for a scan to complete.

MinIO waits between each scan by a factor multiplication of the time it takes each scan operation to complete.
By default, the value of this factor is ``10.0``, meaning MinIO waits 10x the length of an operation after one scan completes before starting the next scan.

> MinIO also applies a maximum wait time between operations, set to ``15s`` by default.

Reviewer: Remove this. We use the `speed=slowest/slow/default/fast/fastest` which contains these values as presets.

- evaluate and apply configured :ref:`lifecycle management <minio-lifecycle-management>` or :ref:`object retention <minio-object-retention>` rules
- perform :ref:`bucket <minio-bucket-replication>` or :ref:`site <minio-site-replication-overview>` replication
- check objects for missing or corrupted data or parity shards and perform :ref:`healing <minio-concepts-healing>`

The scanner performs these functions at two levels: cluster and bucket.
At the cluster level, the scanner splits all buckets into groups and scans one group of buckets at a time.
The scanner starts with any new buckets added since the last scan, then randomizes the scanning of other buckets.
The scanner completes checks on all bucket groups before starting over with a new set of scans.

At the bucket level, the scanner groups items in buckets and scans selected items from that bucket.
The scanner selects objects for a scan based on a hash of the object name.
Over a span of 16 scans, MinIO checks every object in the namespace.
MinIO fully scans any prefixes known to be new since the last scan.

Scan Length
-----------

Multiple factors impact the time it takes for a scan to complete.

> Some of these factors include:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some of these factors include:

```

- Type of drives provided to MinIO

> - Throughput and :abbr:`iops <input/output operations per second>` available

Reviewer 2: This shows in the page with the angle brackets, is that intended?

Author: supposed to be `( )` instead of `< >`

- Number and size of objects
- Other activity on the MinIO Server

For example, by default, MinIO pauses the scanner to make I/O operations available for read and write requests.
This can lengthen the time it takes for a scan to complete.

MinIO waits between each scan by a factor multiplication of the time it takes each scan operation to complete.
By default, the value of this factor is ``10.0``, meaning MinIO waits 10x the length of an operation after one scan completes before starting the next scan.
The value of this factor changes depending on the configured :ref:`scanner speed setting <minio-scanner-speed-options>`. 

Scanner Performance
-------------------

Many factors impact the scanner performance.

> Some of these factors include:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some of these factors include:

```

.. _minio-concepts-scanner:

==============
Object Scanner
==============

.. default-domain:: minio

.. contents:: Table of Contents
   :local:
   :depth: 1

Overview
--------

MinIO uses the built-in scanner to check objects for healing and to take any scheduled object actions.
Such actions may include:

- calculate data usage on drives

> - apply configured :ref:`lifecycle management <minio-lifecycle-management>` or :ref:`object retention <minio-object-retention>` rules

Reviewer 3: Evaluate and apply

> - :ref:`bucket <minio-bucket-replication>` or :ref:`site <minio-site-replication-overview>` replication

Reviewer 3: Perform

- check objects for missing or corrupted data or parity shards and perform :ref:`healing <minio-concepts-healing>`

The scanner performs these functions at two levels: cluster and bucket.

> At the cluster level, the scanner splits all buckets into sets and scans one set at a time.

Reviewer 3: Do we need to define set here?

Author: 🤔 
I may just remove `sets` here to avoid conflation with `erasure sets`. Since these are different things.

> The scanner starts with new buckets, then randomizes the scanning of other buckets.

Reviewer 3: Is this correct or is it correct to say it triggers automatically on new bucket creation

Author: @klauspost?

Reviewer: I don't understand what Eco is implying. The text seems correct.

Reviewer 4: I think it's the nuance of the scanner hitting 'a bucket that is new' vs 'a bucket that was *just* created'

The timing of the former might be seconds, hours, days, etc. after creation depending on scanner load, while the latter is a trigger based on an event and should be more instant.

Author: Clarified. Maybe even correctly.

The scanner completes checks on all bucket sets before starting over with a new set of scans.

At the bucket level, the scanner groups items in buckets and scans selected items from that bucket.
The scanner selects objects for a scan based on a hash of the object name.

> Over a span of 16 scans, MinIO checks every object it knows about.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Over a span of 16 scans, MinIO checks every object it in the namespace.
```

This is more correct, correct? ^

Scan Length
-----------

Multiple factors impact the time it takes for a scan to complete.

Some of these factors include:

> - Type of hard drives provided to MinIO

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Type of  drives provided to MinIO
```

Author: Ooh, good catch. Thanks!

> - Throughput available

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Throughput and iops available
```

- Number and size of objects
- Other activity on the MinIO Server

> For example, MinIO may pause the scanner to make I/O operations available for read and write requests.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, by default MinIO will pause the scanner to make I/O operations available for read and write requests.
```

Author: I have a thing agains `will` as almost always overpromising, but adjusting the phrasing to get it closer to your suggestion.

> This lengthens the time it takes for a scan to complete.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This can lengthen the time it takes for a scan to complete.
```

MinIO waits between each scan by a factor multiplication of the time it takes each scan operation to complete.
By default, the value of this factor is ``10.0``, meaning MinIO waits 10x the length of an operation after one scan completes before starting the next scan.
MinIO also applies a maximum wait time between operations, set to ``15s`` by default.

Scanner Performance
-------------------

> Scanner performance typically depends on the available node resources, the size of the cluster, the number of erasure sets compared to the number of drives, and the complexity of bucket hierarchy (objects and prefixes).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Scanner performance is generally governed by the available node resources, the size of the cluster, the number of erasure sets compared to the number of drives, and the complexity of bucket hierarchy (objects and prefixes).
```

Author: Converting to a list for better readability

For example, a cluster that starts with 100TB of data that then grows to 200TB of data may require more time to scan the entire namespace of buckets and objects given the same hardware and workload.
Likewise, a single erasure set of 16 drives takes longer to scan than the same number of drives split into two erasure sets of 8 drives each.

MinIO treats the scanner as a background task and pauses it in favor of completing read and write requests on the cluster.
As the cluster or workload increases, scanner performance decreases as it yields more frequently to ensure priority of normal S3 operations.

.. include:: /includes/common/scanner.rst
   :start-after: start-scanner-speed-config
   :end-before: end-scanner-speed-config

Scanner Metrics
---------------

MinIO provides a number of `metrics related to the scanner <https://min.io/docs/minio/linux/operations/monitoring/metrics-and-alerts.html#scanner-metrics>`__.

> The metrics updated by the scanner, including usage metrics, reflect the last completed scan. 
> ``PUT`` or ``DELETE`` operations since the last scan do not update in the usage until the next scan of the affected bucket(s).
> 
> Use ``mc admin scanner info`` to see the current status of the scanner and the time since the last full scan.
> This can help in understanding the metrics provided by the scanner operation.

Reviewer 2: Maybe rearrange this a bit? In part to sidestep some technicalities around time series metrics that aren't, strictly speaking, "updated." (You get new values, at a new future point in time.)

```suggestion
Use ``mc admin scanner info`` to see the current status of the scanner and the time since the last full scan.
This can help in understanding the metrics provided by the scanner operation.

Scanner metrics, including usage metrics, reflect the last completed scan.
``PUT`` or ``DELETE`` operations since the last scan do not update in the usage until the next scan of the affected bucket(s).
```
